a.] ipconfig
Displays all current TCP/IP network configuration values. and refreshes Dynamic Host Configuration
Protocal CDHCP) and Domain Name System (DNS) settings. Used without parameters, ipconfig displays
internd protocol version 4 (IPV4) and IPv6 addresses, subnet mask, and default gateway for all adapters. b.] ipconfig/all
Displays the full TCP/IP configuration for all adapter... Adapters can represent physical interfaces, such
as installed network adapters, or logical interfaces such as dial-up connections. c.] getmac
Returns the media acess control (MAC) address and list of network protocols associated with each
address you all. network cards in each computer, either locally or across. a network. d.] ping youtube.com ping 192.168.21.104
Ping is very universal command between all the operating systems. It can be use to test if you can. reach
your target and how much time it will take. to do it Ping sends Internet Control Mossage Protocal (ICMP)
packets to the destination. Then it waits for- the echo reply. e.] netstat
The netstat command displays the contents of various network-related data structures for active
connections. It displays the status of TCP and UDP and points in table format, routing table information, and interace information. g.] tracert google.com tracert amazon.com

https://study.cscornersunitarai.com/

The tracert command is a command Prompt that's used to show several details about the path. that a
packet takes from the computer on device you're on to Lowhatever destination you specify
h.] pathping youtube.com
It provides information about network latency and network loss at intermediate hops between a source
and destination This command sends multiple echa Request massages to each router between source
and destination, over a period of time, and then computes result based on packets returned from each
router

i.] nslookup youtube.com
The nslookup command queries internet domain rame servers in two modes. Interictive mode allows
you to query name servers for information about various hosts and domains, or to print a list of the host
in a domain. In noniteractive mode, the names and requested information are printed your specified
host or demain.

j.] arp -a
The arp command displays and modifies the Internet- to-adapter address translation tables used by the
Address in Networks and communication management. The arp command displays the current ARP
entry for the host specified by hostname variable. arp-a displays the mac addresses of recently resolved ip addresses. k.] arp -d
This command is used when you want to delete fane entry from ARP table for particular interface.

l.] arp -a -v
Displays current entries in verbose mode. All invalid enteries and entries on look-back interface will be
shown.
